---
title: "Best AI Chatbots in 2024"
sidebarTitle: "Chatbots"

---


7 Best AI Chatbots in 2024
By Alex • Updated Jun 16, 2024

Best for: Web | Windows | Mac

The launch of ChatGPT created a buzz in the tech world and beyond.

However, ChatGPT is just the beginning of what is possible with AI chatbots. With the ever-evolving technology, there are now several other AI chatbots available that are worth exploring. 

I've spent hours testing 56 different options on the market, and this article lists the top 7 you should check out.

Best AI Chatbots
ChatGPT
Microsoft Copilot (formerly Bing Chat)
Google Gemini (formerly Bard)
Claude
Perplexity
YouChat
Poe
What Makes a Great AI Chatbot?
Before we dive into our top picks, it's crucial to understand what sets a great AI chatbot apart. Key qualities include:

Accuracy and Responsiveness: The key is to provide accurate information promptly.
Contextual Understanding: The ability to comprehend the context of a dialogue and respond accordingly is vital.
Real-Time Data Access: Chatbots that can access the latest data from the internet have an edge, providing the most up-to-date information.
Ease of Access: It should be user-friendly, requiring no advanced setup. 
Multilingual Support: Being able to communicate in multiple languages really opens up conversations to a global audience.
With these characteristics in mind, let's deep dive into our top seven AI chatbots for 2024.

1. ChatGPT 
image
ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI, is a conversational AI that has gained immense popularity for its impressive text generation capabilities. It leverages advanced language models to generate human-like text, making it an excellent tool for a wide range of tasks.

Key Features:

Utilizes OpenAI's advanced GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 language models
Capable of generating text, solving math problems, and coding
Offers a free version with an optional ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20/month
Our Take:

As an original and widely recognized AI chatbot, ChatGPT stands out for its accuracy and versatility. Its ability to generate human-like text across various contexts makes it a valuable tool for content creation, problem-solving, and more. Although its data access was previously limited, the introduction of plugins has significantly enhanced its capabilities, providing access to the latest data.

2. Microsoft Copilot (formerly Bing Chat)
image
Microsoft Copilot, formerly known as Bing Chat, is an AI-powered chatbot that has significantly evolved since its initial launch. It assists users with various tasks, from generating text and images to providing current information and answers to complex questions.

Key Features

Advanced AI Capabilities: Copilot uses OpenAI's GPT-4 to provide users with high-quality, conversational responses to a wide range of queries.
Image Generation: With its integration with Microsoft Designer (formerly Bing Image Creator), Copilot can generate images from text descriptions, enhancing creative tasks.
Web Grounding: Unlike some AI chatbots, Copilot can access web results and current information through Bing, Microsoft's search engine.
Accessibility: Copilot is integrated into the Microsoft Edge browser and is also available as a mobile app for iOS and Android devices, ensuring users can access its features across multiple platforms.
Conclusion

Microsoft Copilot is a versatile and accessible AI-powered chatbot available for free to the public. It offers features that cater to both casual users and professionals seeking an AI assistant for information discovery, content creation, and more.

3. Google Gemini (formerly Bard)
image
Google Gemini, previously known as Bard, is a cutting-edge conversational AI developed by Google. Designed to offer users information and assistance, it taps into Google's vast data and search capabilities. A notable feature of Google Gemini is its real-time data access, providing users with the most recent information and responses.

Key Features:

Advanced AI Capabilities: Google Gemini is powered by advanced AI models, including the mid-tier Gemini Pro and the more potent Gemini Ultra.
Integration with Google Services: This AI chatbot seamlessly integrates with various Google services, including Gmail.
Multimodal Capabilities: As a multimodal model, Gemini can process and comprehend multiple input types, such as text, images, audio, and video.
Our Take:

Google Gemini integrates Google's AI and search features. Its unique multimodal capabilities to process various forms of data and detailed responses highlight Google's AI progress. With continuous upgrades and potential integration with Google services, Gemini is set to be a versatile AI assistant for all uses.

4. Claude
image
Claude by Anthropic is an AI chatbot known for its in-depth document analysis and coding assistance. It's a robust tool for those needing comprehensive and context-aware responses.

Key Features:

Utilizes the Claude-3 language models
Offers in-depth document analysis and coding assistance
Available for free in the US and UK
Our Take:

Claude shines with its deep text analysis capabilities, making it an excellent choice for users handling large amounts of text. Its coding assistance feature further extends its utility, particularly for users in fields like law, mathematics, and coding. While it does not have internet access, it excels in providing detailed and context-aware responses.

5. Perplexity
image
Perplexity is a AI chatbot that stands out for its sourcing capabilities and internet access. It can use either GPT-3.5, GPT-4 or Claude-3 language models to provide users with up-to-date and comprehensive information.

Key Features:

Powered by GPT-3.5, 4 and Claude-2 language models
Offers real-time data access and source citations
Has a free version, with a Pro version starting at $20/month
Our Take:

Perplexity's real-time data access and source citation make it a reliable tool for users needing accurate and verifiable information. Its user-friendly interface and prompt suggestions make it easy to use, particularly for brainstorming and idea generation.

6. YouChat
image
YouChat by You.com is an all-around AI chatbot solution that uses a proprietary language model. It offers real-time data access, making it a solid choice for users seeking up-to-date information.

Key Features:

Uses a proprietary language model
Provides real-time data access
Available for free
Our Take:

YouChat offers a well-rounded solution that fits a variety of user needs. Its proprietary language model and real-time data access ensure users receive accurate and timely responses. Being a free tool, it's an accessible choice for users on a budget.

7. Poe
image
Poe, launched by Quora, is an innovative platform that brings together a variety of Large Language Models, including GPT-4 from OpenAI, Claude 3 from Anthropic, and many others. It gives users the unique opportunity to interact with multiple large language models and even design their own custom chatbots.

Key Features:

Provides access to a broad range of AI chatbots from leading developers such as OpenAI and Anthropic
Enables users to create and share their own custom chatbots using text prompts
Offers a free version along with a premium subscription for $20/month, which provides extended access and capabilities
Our Take:

Poe is a flexible AI chatbot aggregator that incorporates various Large Language Models, allowing users to experiment and create personalized chatbots. This positions Poe as an exciting platform for AI enthusiasts and general users alike. Its wide-ranging offerings and user-friendly interface make it a remarkable option in the AI chatbot field.

Frequently Asked Questions
What is an AI Chatbot?

An AI chatbot is a computer program that uses artificial intelligence to simulate human conversation. These chatbots can understand natural language, respond to queries, and even learn from past interactions to improve future responses.

How do AI Chatbots work?

AI chatbots use machine learning algorithms to understand and respond to user inputs. They analyze the input, decipher its intent, and generate a suitable response.

Can AI Chatbots understand different languages?

Yes, many AI chatbots can understand and respond in multiple languages. However, the number and type of languages supported can vary between different chatbots.

Are AI Chatbots safe to use?

Most reputable AI chatbots have robust security measures in place to ensure user data is protected. However, it's essential to review the privacy policy of any chatbot you use to understand how your data is being used and protected.

Can AI Chatbots replace human customer service?

While AI chatbots can handle many customer service tasks, they aren't capable of replacing human customer service entirely. They are best used as a supplementary tool to manage routine queries, allowing human agents to focus on more complex issues.

Conclusion
In conclusion, the realm of AI chatbots offers a wealth of options, each with its unique strengths. 

Whether you're looking for a chatbot with advanced language models like ChatGPT or a user-friendly interface like Poe, there's a chatbot out there to meet your needs. 

Take your time to explore these digital assistants and unlock the potential they hold for your personal or professional endeavors.

All AI Chatbots
Name	URL
ChatGPT
openai.com
Microsoft Copilot (formerly Bing Chat)
www.bing.com
Google Gemini (formerly Bard)
gemini.google.com
Claude
claude.ai
Perplexity
www.perplexity.ai
YouChat
you.com
Poe
poe.com
Character.AI
character.ai
HuggingChat
huggingface.co
Chatsonic by Writesonic
writesonic.com
Jasper Chat
www.jasper.ai
Chat by Copy.ai
www.copy.ai
My AI by Snapchat
www.snapchat.com
OpenAI Playground
platform.openai.com
AI Chat by DeepAI
deepai.org
Pi
pi.ai
Sider
sider.ai
Nova
novaapp.ai
ZenoChat by TextCortex
textcortex.com
Grok
x.ai
OpenRouter Chat
openrouter.ai
Replika
replika.ai
TypingMind
www.typingmind.com
LibreChat
librechat.ai
BetterChatGPT
bettergpt.chat
Vello
vello.ai
Personal AI
www.personal.ai
ChatHub
chathub.gg
Chatbox
chatboxai.app
Horizon AI
horizon-ui.com
ChatKit
chatkit.app
Elephas
elephas.app
Chatspot
chatspot.ai
Chatbot UI
www.chatbotui.com
BoltAI
boltai.com
OmniGPT
omnigpt.co
MacGPT
www.macgpt.com
Langdock
www.langdock.com
Elomia Health
elomia.com
MindMac
mindmac.app
KoalaChat
koala.sh
Quartzite
www.quartzite.ai
OpenCat
opencat.app
TeamSmart AI
www.teamsmart.ai
Writers Brew
writersbrew.app
Wielded
wielded.com
EasyChat AI
easychat-ai.app
FridayGPT
www.fridaygpt.app
NextChat
github.com
ChatGPT Toolkit
schmedu.com
MyGPT
mygpt.thesamur.ai
LobeChat
github.com
Collaborative AI
github.com
HostedGPT
github.com
AnythingLLM
github.com
Obsidian Copilot
github.com
